README_formatter.md, before:

# Latvian Text Formatter

This tool formats Latvian legal texts into structured formats (bullet points, sections) using the EuroLLM-9B-Instruct multilingual model.

## Features

- Formats raw Latvian texts into bullet points or sections
- Memory-efficient processing for large documents
- Database integration for batch processing
- Standalone testing script for file-based formatting

## Requirements

Install dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Database Batch Processing

The main script (`latvian_formatter.py`) processes documents directly from the database:

```
python latvian_formatter.py --format-type bullet_points --batch-size 10 --memory-limit 4000
```

Parameters:
- `--format-type`: Format style (bullet_points, sections, general)
- `--batch-size`: Number of documents to process in one batch
- `--memory-limit`: Memory limit in MB

### Standalone File Processing

For testing or one-off formatting, use the test script:

```
python test_formatter.py --input input.txt --output formatted.txt --format-type sections
```

Parameters:
- `--input`, `-i`: Input text file in Latvian
- `--output`, `-o`: Output file for formatted text
- `--format-type`, `-t`: Type of formatting to apply

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file with:

```
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/dbname
BATCH_DELAY_MS=100
MEMORY_LIMIT_MB=4000
FORMATTER_MODEL_ID=utter-project/EuroLLM-9B-Instruct
```

## Database Schema

The script expects a database with a table structure:

```sql
CREATE TABLE raw_docs (
    id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    url TEXT,
    fetched_at TIMESTAMP,
    raw_text TEXT,
    structured_format TEXT,
    formatted_at TIMESTAMP
);
```

## Notes

- EuroLLM-9B-Instruct is optimized for Latvian and other European languages
- For large documents, the script truncates text to 6000 characters by default
- GPU acceleration is used when available, falling back to CPU

Commit message:

Refactor LatvianFormatter to utilize Hugging Face API for text formatting, removing local model dependencies. Update README and requirements to reflect changes in environment variables and dependencies. Enhance test script to connect to the Hugging Face endpoint.

README_formatter.md, after:

# Latvian Text Formatter

This tool formats Latvian legal texts into structured formats (bullet points, sections) using the EuroLLM-9B-Instruct multilingual model via a Hugging Face endpoint.

## Features

- Formats raw Latvian texts into bullet points or sections
- Memory-efficient processing for large documents
- Database integration for batch processing
- Standalone testing script for file-based formatting
- Uses Hugging Face API endpoint instead of loading model locally

## Requirements

Install dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file with:

```
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/dbname
BATCH_DELAY_MS=100
MEMORY_LIMIT_MB=4000
HF_ENDPOINT=https://uyba45g29g72pbos.us-east4.gcp.endpoints.huggingface.cloud/v1/
HF_API_KEY=your_huggingface_api_key
```

You must obtain a valid Hugging Face API key and set it in the `HF_API_KEY` environment variable.

## Usage

### Database Batch Processing

The main script (`latvian_formatter.py`) processes documents directly from the database:

```
python latvian_formatter.py --format-type bullet_points --batch-size 10 --memory-limit 4000
```

Parameters:
- `--format-type`: Format style (bullet_points, sections, general)
- `--batch-size`: Number of documents to process in one batch
- `--memory-limit`: Memory limit in MB

### Standalone File Processing

For testing or one-off formatting, use the test script:

```
python test_formatter.py --input input.txt --output formatted.txt --format-type sections
```

Parameters:
- `--input`, `-i`: Input text file in Latvian
- `--output`, `-o`: Output file for formatted text
- `--format-type`, `-t`: Type of formatting to apply

## Database Schema

The script expects a database with a table structure:

```sql
CREATE TABLE raw_docs (
    id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    url TEXT,
    fetched_at TIMESTAMP,
    raw_text TEXT,
    structured_format TEXT,
    formatted_at TIMESTAMP
);
```

## Notes

- EuroLLM-9B-Instruct is optimized for Latvian and other European languages
- For large documents, the script truncates text to 6000 characters by default
- Using the Hugging Face endpoint reduces memory requirements and simplifies deployment
